blog: non-root containers and devices (#29703)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/non-root-containers-and-devices.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Non-root Containers And Devices'
date: 2021-09-YY
slug: non-root-containers-and-devices
---

**Author:** Mikko Ylinen (Intel)

The user/group ID related security settings in Pod's `securityContext` trigger a problem when users want to

> deploy containers that use accelerator devices (via [Kubernetes Device Plugins](docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/)) on Linux. In this blog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deploy containers that use accelerator devices (via [Kubernetes Device Plugins](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/)) on Linux. In this blog
```

> post we talk about the problem and describe the work that was made so far to address it. It's not meant to be a long story about getting the ["k/k issue"](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/92211) fixed but to raise the awaress of it and important device use-cases too. This is needed as we work on new related features such as support for user namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
post we talk about the problem and describe the work done so far to address it. It's not meant to be a long story about getting the [k/k issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/92211) fixed. 

Instead,  this post aims to raise awareness of the issue and to highlight important device use-cases too. This is needed as we work on new related features such as support for user namespaces.
```

Reviewer: I would replace “we” as there is only one listed author. First person is “I” for a blog article with one author.

> ## Why non-root containers can't use devices and why it matters?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Why non-root containers can't use devices and why it matters
```

One of the key security principles for running containers in Kubernetes is the
principle of least privilege. The Pod/container `securityContext` specifies the config

> knobs to set, e.g., Linux* capabilities, MAC policies, and user/group ID values to achieve this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
options to set, e.g., Linux* capabilities, MAC policies, and user/group ID values to achieve this.
```

Why is there an asterisk * after Linux?

> Furthermore, the cluster admins are supported with tools like [Pod Security Policy (deprecated)](docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/) or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the cluster admins are supported with tools like [PodSecurityPolicy](/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/) (deprecated) or
```

> [Pod Security Admission](docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) to enforce the desired security settings for pods that are being deployed in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Pod Security Admission](docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) (alpha) to enforce the desired security settings for pods that are being deployed in
```

the cluster. These settings could, for instance, require that containers must be `runAsNonRoot` or
that they are forbidden from running with root's group ID in `runAsGroup` or `supplementalGroups`.

> In Kubernetes*, kubelet builds the list of [`Device`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/cri-api@v0.22.1/pkg/apis/runtime/v1#Device)s to be made available to a container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes*, the kubelet builds the list of [`Device`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/cri-api@v0.22.1/pkg/apis/runtime/v1#Device) resources to be made available to a container
```

why the * after Kubernetes?

(based on inputs from the Device Plugins) and the list is included in the CreateContainer CRI message
sent to the CRI container runtime. Each `Device` contains little information: host/container device
paths and the desired devices cgroups permissions.

The [OCI Runtime Spec for Linux Container Configuration](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config-linux.md)
expects that in addition to the devices cgroup fields, more detailed information about the devices
must be provided:

> ```json

Reviewer: I expect this will syntax highlight better if you tell the static-site generator a white lie and say it's YAML. (All JSON documents are valid YAML).

Author: done.

{
        "type": "<string>",
        "path": "<string>",
        "major": <int64>,
        "minor": <int64>,
        "fileMode": <uint32>,
        "uid": <uint32>,
        "gid": <uint32>
},
```

The CRI container runtimes (containerd, CRI-O) are responsible for obtaining this information
from the host for each `Device`. By default, the runtimes copy the host device's user and group IDs:

> > `uid` (uint32, OPTIONAL) - id of device owner in the container namespace.  
> > `gid` (uint32, OPTIONAL) - id of device group in the container namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `uid` (uint32, OPTIONAL) - id of device owner in the container namespace.  
- `gid` (uint32, OPTIONAL) - id of device group in the container namespace.
```
Use bullets, not blockquotes

Similarly, the runtimes prepare other mandatory `config.json` sections based on the CRI fields,
including the ones defined in `securityContext`: `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup`, which become part of the POSIX
platforms user structure via:

> > `uid` (int, REQUIRED) specifies the user ID in the container namespace.  
> > `gid` (int, REQUIRED) specifies the group ID in the container namespace.  
> > `additionalGids` (array of ints, OPTIONAL) specifies additional group IDs in the container namespace to be added to the process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `uid` (int, REQUIRED) specifies the user ID in the container namespace.  
- `gid` (int, REQUIRED) specifies the group ID in the container namespace.  
- `additionalGids` (array of ints, OPTIONAL) specifies additional group IDs in the container namespace to be added to the process.
```

However, the resulting `config.json` triggers a problem when trying to run containers with
both devices added and with non-root uid/gid set via `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup`: the container user process
has no permission to use the device even when its group id (gid, copied from host) was permissive to
non-root groups. This is because the container user does not belong to that host group (e.g., via `additionalGids`).

Being able to run applications that use devices as non-root user is normal and expected to work so that
the security principles can be met. Therefore, we looked into alternatives to get the gap filled with what the PodSec/CRI/OCI supports today.

## What was done to solve the issue?

> Some readers probably noticed from the problem definition that it would at least be possible to workaround

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might have noticed from the problem definition that it would at least be possible to workaround
```

the problem by manually adding the device gid(s) to `supplementalGroups`, or in
the case of just one device, set `runAsGroup` to the device's group id. However, this is problematic because the device gid(s) may have

> different values depending on the nodes' distro/version in the cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
different values depending on the nodes' distro/version in the cluster. For example, the following commands for different distros and versions return different gids:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: Omit `bash` as this is not a valid script (it's a mix of commands, a prompt, and output).

Author: dropped

$ docker run -t fedora:34 grep video /etc/group
video:x:39:
$ docker run -t ubuntu:21.04 grep video /etc/group
video:x:44
```

Which number to choose in your `securityContext`? Also, what if the `runAsGroup`/`runAsUser` values cannot be hard-coded because
they are automatically assigned during pod admission time via external security policies?

Unlike volumes with `fsGroup`, the devices have no official notion of `deviceGroup`/`deviceUser` that the CRI runtimes (or kubelet)

> would be able to use. We considered using container annotations set by the device plugins (e.g., `io.kubernetes.cri.hostDeviceSupplementalGroup/`) to get custom OCI `config.json` uid/gid values.

Reviewer: Who is “we” in this context? Intel?

Author: @sftim how to solve the problem was a joint effort between all the people in "thanks" section. I just implemented the fix and wrote the blog. I'd like to keep "we" here but perhaps clarify who's we.

Author: I changed my mind because it was easy to change this. Does it look better?

This would have required changes to all existing device plugins which was not ideal.

Instead, we wanted the solution to be *seamless* to end-users without getting the device plugin vendors involved. The selected approach was
to re-use `runAsUser` and `runAsGroup` values in `config.json` for devices:

```json
{
        "type": "c",
        "path": "/dev/foo",
        "major": 123,
        "minor": 4,
        "fileMode": 438,
        "uid": <runAsUser>,
        "gid": <runAsGroup>
},
```

With `runc` OCI runtime (in non-[*rootless mode*](docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-in-userns/)), the device is created (`mknod(2)`) in

> the container name space and the ownership is changed to `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup` using `chmod(2)` (NB: rootless mode and devices is currently not supported).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the container namespace and the ownership is changed to `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup` using `chmod(2)` 

{{< note >}}
Rootless mode and devices is not supported.
{{</note>}}
```

`device_ownership_from_security_context (bool)`

defaults to `false` and must be enabled to use the feature.

## See non-root containers using devices after the fix
To demonstrate the new behavior, let's use a Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) application using hardware accelerators, Kubernetes CPU manager, and HugePages as an example. The cluster runs containerd with:

```toml
[plugins]
  [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri"]
    device_ownership_from_security_context = true
```

or CRI-O with:

```toml
[crio.runtime]
device_ownership_from_security_context = true
```

and the Guaranteed QoS Class Pod that runs DPDK's crypto-perf test utility:

```yaml
...
metadata:
  name: qat-dpdk
spec:
  securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000
    runAsGroup: 2000
    fsGroup: 3000
  containers:
  - name: crypto-perf
    image: intel/crypto-perf:devel
    ...
    resources:
      requests:
        cpu: "3"
        memory: "128Mi"
        qat.intel.com/generic: '4'
        hugepages-2Mi: "128Mi"
      limits:
        cpu: "3"
        memory: "128Mi"
        qat.intel.com/generic: '4'
        hugepages-2Mi: "128Mi"
  ...
```

> `fsGroup` gives a `runAsUser` writable HugePages emptyDir mountpoint. To verity the results, we check the container's environment:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`fsGroup` gives a `runAsUser` writable HugePages emptyDir mountpoint. To verify the results, we check the container's environment:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: IMO separate commands from output and from other commands for better readability.

Author: @shannonxtreme any suggestion how to do this? I've now dropped `bash` at least.

Author: @shannonxtreme @sftim I have this now fixed. Thanks for the improvement ideas!

$ kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- id
uid=1000 gid=2000 groups=2000,3000
$ kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- ls -la /dev/vfio
total 0
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root      140 Sep  7 10:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 7 root root      380 Sep  7 10:55 ..
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,   0 Sep  7 10:55 58
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,   2 Sep  7 10:55 60
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,  10 Sep  7 10:55 68
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,  11 Sep  7 10:55 69
crw-rw-rw- 1 1000 2000  10, 196 Sep  7 10:55 vfio
$ kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- ls -la /dev/hugepages/
total 0
drwxrwsr-x 2 root 3000   0 Sep  7 10:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 7 root root 380 Sep  7 10:55 ..
```

## Help us test it and provide feedback!
The functionality described here is expected to help with cluster security and the configurability of device permissions. To allow

> non-root containers to use devices requires admins for cluster to opt-in for the functionality by setting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
non-root containers to use devices requires cluster admins to opt-in to the functionality by setting
```

> `device_ownership_from_security_context = true`. To make it a default setting, we ask everybody to test it and provide feedback!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`device_ownership_from_security_context = true`. To make it a default setting, we ask that you test it and provide feedback!
```

Reviewer 2: Perhaps a link to open a new issue in the right place?

The flag is available in CRI-O v1.22 release and queued for containerd v1.6.

More work is needed to get it *properly* supported. It is known to work with `runc` but we also need to make it function

> with other OCI runtimes too, where applicable. For instance, Kata Containers* supports device passthrough and allows it to make devices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with other OCI runtimes too, where applicable. For instance, Kata Containers* supports device passthrough and allows it to make devices
```

Another * after Kata Containers

Author: dropped `*` in all places

available to containers in VM sandboxes too.

Moreover, the additional challenge comes with support of user names and devices. This problem is still [open](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/2101)

> and requires thinking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and requires more brainstorming.
```

Finally, we need to see whether `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup` are enough or if device specific settings similar to `fsGroups` are needed in PodSpec/CRI v2.

## Thanks

> My thanks goes to Mike Brown (containerd), Peter Hunt (CRI-O), and Alexander Kanevskiy for providing all the feedback and good conversations.

Author: added their companies in parentheses

---
layout: blog
title: 'Non-root Containers And Devices'
date: 2021-09-YY
slug: non-root-containers-and-devices
---

> 

Reviewer 2: This doesn't read like a blog post, but an academic paper. I'll provide some structural recommendations before I review the content.

Author: @shannonxtreme I've now updated the text based on your feedback. Looks better?

Reviewer 2: Flows better for sure (I wouldn't say the text is better because it was already a wonderful contribution and I appreciate you!). I'll do a teeny style/grammar review but they'll be more nits than anything :)

**Author:** Mikko Ylinen (Intel)

> ## Abstract

Reviewer 2: Headings need to be more readable and organic. This section could instead be titled "How Kubernetes supports the principle of least privilege" (for example)

One of the key security principles for running containers in Kubernetes is the
principle of least privilege. The Pod/container `securityContext` specifies the config
knobs to set, e.g., Linux* capabilities, MAC policies, and user/group ID values to achieve this.

Furthermore, the cluster admins are supported with tools like [Pod Security Policy (deprecated)](docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/) or
[Pod Security Admission](docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) to enforce the desired security settings for pods that are being deployed in
the cluster. These settings could, for instance, require that containers must be `runAsNonRoot` or
that they are forbidden from running with root's group ID in `runAsGroup` or `supplementalGroups`.

> However, the user/group ID related security settings trigger a problem when users want to

Reviewer 2: Make this a part of the blog post purpose/goal at the beginning (see the below comment)

deploy containers that use accelerator devices (via [Kubernetes Device Plugins](docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/device-plugins/)) on Linux. In this blog

> post we talk about the problem in detail and describe the work that was made so far to address it. It's not meant to be a long story about getting the ["k/k issue"](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/92211) fixed but to raise the awaress of it and important device use-cases too. This is needed as we work on new related features such as support for user namespaces.

Reviewer 2: The purpose/goal of the post needs to be near the beginning, under the title. Readers need to know what the blog is about before they start reading it. I'd recommend summarizing the Problem Statement into one or two sentences, then saying "in this blog post we describe blah", right at the top of the page.

> ## Problem Statement

Reviewer 2: Retitle to (for example) "Why non-root containers can't run devices".

Similarly, the runtimes prepare other mandatory `config.json` sections based on the CRI fields,
including the ones defined in `securityContext`: `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup`, which become part of the POSIX
platforms user structure via:

> `uid` (int, REQUIRED) specifies the user ID in the container namespace.  
> `gid` (int, REQUIRED) specifies the group ID in the container namespace.  
> `additionalGids` (array of ints, OPTIONAL) specifies additional group IDs in the container namespace to be added to the process.

However, the resulting `config.json` triggers a problem when trying to run containers with
both devices added and with non-root uid/gid set via `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup`: the container user process
has no permission to use the device even when its group id (gid, copied from host) was permissive to
non-root groups. This is because the container user does not belong to that host group (e.g., via `additionalGids`).

Being able to run applications that use devices as non-root user is normal and expected to work so we
looked into alternatives to get the gap filled with what the PodSec/CRI/OCI supports today.

> ## Solution and Alternatives Considered

Reviewer 2: "What we're doing to solve this issue" (for example)

to re-use `runAsUser` and `runAsGroup` values in `config.json` for devices:

```json
{
        "type": "c",
        "path": "/dev/foo",
        "major": 123,
        "minor": 4,
        "fileMode": 438,
        "uid": <runAsUser>,
        "gid": <runAsGroup>
},
```

With `runc` OCI runtime (in non-[*rootless mode*](docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-in-userns/)), the device is created (`mknod(2)`) in
the container name space and the ownership is changed to `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup` using `chmod(2)` (NB: rootless mode and devices is currently not supported).
Having the ownership updated in the container namespace is justified as the user process is the only one accessing the device. Only `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup`
are taken into account, and, e.g., the `USER` setting in the container is currently ignored.

While it is likely that the "faulty" deployments (i.e., non-root `securityContext` + devices) do not exist, to be absolutely sure no
deployments break, we added an opt-in config entry in both containerd and CRI-O to enable the new behavior. The following:

`device_ownership_from_security_context (bool)`

defaults to `false` and must be enabled to use the feature.

> ## Demo

Reviewer 2: "See the solution in action"

    runAsGroup: 2000
    fsGroup: 3000
  containers:
  - name: crypto-perf
    image: intel/crypto-perf:devel
    ...
    resources:
      requests:
        cpu: "3"
        memory: "128Mi"
        qat.intel.com/generic: '4'
        hugepages-2Mi: "128Mi"
      limits:
        cpu: "3"
        memory: "128Mi"
        qat.intel.com/generic: '4'
        hugepages-2Mi: "128Mi"
  ...
```

`fsGroup` gives a `runAsUser` writable HugePages emptyDir mountpoint. To verity the results, we check the container's environment:

```bash
$ kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- id
uid=1000 gid=2000 groups=2000,3000
$ kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- ls -la /dev/vfio
total 0
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root      140 Sep  7 10:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 7 root root      380 Sep  7 10:55 ..
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,   0 Sep  7 10:55 58
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,   2 Sep  7 10:55 60
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,  10 Sep  7 10:55 68
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,  11 Sep  7 10:55 69
crw-rw-rw- 1 1000 2000  10, 196 Sep  7 10:55 vfio
$ kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- ls -la /dev/hugepages/
total 0
drwxrwsr-x 2 root 3000   0 Sep  7 10:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 7 root root 380 Sep  7 10:55 ..
```

> ## Call to Actions

Reviewer 2: "Help us test our solution!"

    runAsUser: 1000
    runAsGroup: 2000
    fsGroup: 3000
  containers:
  - name: crypto-perf
    image: intel/crypto-perf:devel
    ...
    resources:
      requests:
        cpu: "3"
        memory: "128Mi"
        qat.intel.com/generic: '4'
        hugepages-2Mi: "128Mi"
      limits:
        cpu: "3"
        memory: "128Mi"
        qat.intel.com/generic: '4'
        hugepages-2Mi: "128Mi"
  ...
```

`fsGroup` gives a `runAsUser` writable HugePages emptyDir mountpoint. To verity the results, check the container's environment:

```
$ kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- id
uid=1000 gid=2000 groups=2000,3000
$ kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- ls -la /dev/vfio
total 0
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root      140 Sep  7 10:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 7 root root      380 Sep  7 10:55 ..
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,   0 Sep  7 10:55 58
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,   2 Sep  7 10:55 60
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,  10 Sep  7 10:55 68
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,  11 Sep  7 10:55 69
crw-rw-rw- 1 1000 2000  10, 196 Sep  7 10:55 vfio
$ kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- ls -la /dev/hugepages/
total 0
drwxrwsr-x 2 root 3000   0 Sep  7 10:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 7 root root 380 Sep  7 10:55 ..

> ```

Reviewer 2: Something like this? 

One-line description of what the command does:

```shell
kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- id
```

The output is similar to the following:
```
uid=1000 gid=2000 groups=2000,3000
```

One-line description of what the command does:
```shell
kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- ls -la /dev/vfio
```

The output is similar to the following:
```
total 0
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root      140 Sep  7 10:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 7 root root      380 Sep  7 10:55 ..
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,   0 Sep  7 10:55 58
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,   2 Sep  7 10:55 60
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,  10 Sep  7 10:55 68
crw------- 1 1000 2000 241,  11 Sep  7 10:55 69
crw-rw-rw- 1 1000 2000  10, 196 Sep  7 10:55 vfio
```

One-line description of what the command does:
```shell
kubectl exec -it qat-dpdk -c crypto-perf -- ls -la /dev/hugepages/
```

The output is similar to the following:
```
total 0
drwxrwsr-x 2 root 3000   0 Sep  7 10:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 7 root root 380 Sep  7 10:55 ..
```

Author: @shannonxtreme thanks!

Author: fixed

In Kubernetes, the kubelet builds the list of [`Device`](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/cri-api@v0.22.1/pkg/apis/runtime/v1#Device) resources to be made available to a container
(based on inputs from the Device Plugins) and the list is included in the CreateContainer CRI message
sent to the CRI container runtime. Each `Device` contains little information: host/container device
paths and the desired devices cgroups permissions.

The [OCI Runtime Spec for Linux Container Configuration](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config-linux.md)
expects that in addition to the devices cgroup fields, more detailed information about the devices
must be provided:

```yaml
{
        "type": "<string>",
        "path": "<string>",
        "major": <int64>,
        "minor": <int64>,
        "fileMode": <uint32>,
        "uid": <uint32>,
        "gid": <uint32>
},
```

The CRI container runtimes (containerd, CRI-O) are responsible for obtaining this information
from the host for each `Device`. By default, the runtimes copy the host device's user and group IDs:

- `uid` (uint32, OPTIONAL) - id of device owner in the container namespace.  

> - `gid` (uint32, OPTIONAL) - id of device group in the container namespace.

Reviewer: I might omit namespace here. Does this technology require that the container runtime is one that uses (Linux) namespaces? If not, let's be more runtime-agnostic.

Author: This is quoting the official OCI spec: https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/master/config-linux.md#devices

- `additionalGids` (array of ints, OPTIONAL) specifies additional group IDs in the container namespace to be added to the process.

However, the resulting `config.json` triggers a problem when trying to run containers with
both devices added and with non-root uid/gid set via `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup`: the container user process
has no permission to use the device even when its group id (gid, copied from host) was permissive to
non-root groups. This is because the container user does not belong to that host group (e.g., via `additionalGids`).

Being able to run applications that use devices as non-root user is normal and expected to work so that
the security principles can be met. Therefore, several alternatives were considered to get the gap filled with what the PodSec/CRI/OCI supports today.

## What was done to solve the issue?
You might have noticed from the problem definition that it would at least be possible to workaround
the problem by manually adding the device gid(s) to `supplementalGroups`, or in
the case of just one device, set `runAsGroup` to the device's group id. However, this is problematic because the device gid(s) may have

> 

Reviewer 3: Accidental paragraph break.

Author: fixed.

`device_ownership_from_security_context (bool)`

defaults to `false` and must be enabled to use the feature.

## See non-root containers using devices after the fix
To demonstrate the new behavior, let's use a Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) application using hardware accelerators, Kubernetes CPU manager, and HugePages as an example. The cluster runs containerd with:

```toml
[plugins]
  [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri"]
    device_ownership_from_security_context = true
```

or CRI-O with:

```toml
[crio.runtime]
device_ownership_from_security_context = true
```

and the `Guaranteed` QoS Class Pod that runs DPDK's crypto-perf test utility with this YAML:

```yaml
...
metadata:
  name: qat-dpdk
spec:
  securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000
    runAsGroup: 2000
    fsGroup: 3000
  containers:
  - name: crypto-perf
    image: intel/crypto-perf:devel
    ...
    resources:
      requests:
        cpu: "3"
        memory: "128Mi"
        qat.intel.com/generic: '4'
        hugepages-2Mi: "128Mi"
      limits:
        cpu: "3"
        memory: "128Mi"
        qat.intel.com/generic: '4'
        hugepages-2Mi: "128Mi"
  ...
```

> To verity the results, check the uid and gid of the container processes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify the results, check the user and group ID that the container runs as:
```

crw-rw---- 1 root render 226, 128 19.10. 17:36 renderD128
$ grep -e video -e render /etc/group
video:x:44:
render:x:133:
```

Which number to choose in your `securityContext`? Also, what if the `runAsGroup`/`runAsUser` values cannot be hard-coded because
they are automatically assigned during pod admission time via external security policies?

Unlike volumes with `fsGroup`, the devices have no official notion of `deviceGroup`/`deviceUser` that the CRI runtimes (or kubelet)
would be able to use. We considered using container annotations set by the device plugins (e.g., `io.kubernetes.cri.hostDeviceSupplementalGroup/`) to get custom OCI `config.json` uid/gid values.
This would have required changes to all existing device plugins which was not ideal.

Instead, a solution that is *seamless* to end-users without getting the device plugin vendors involved was preferred. The selected approach was
to re-use `runAsUser` and `runAsGroup` values in `config.json` for devices:

```yaml
{
        "type": "c",
        "path": "/dev/foo",
        "major": 123,
        "minor": 4,
        "fileMode": 438,
        "uid": <runAsUser>,
        "gid": <runAsGroup>
},
```

> With `runc` OCI runtime (in non-[*rootless mode*](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubelet-in-userns/)), the device is created (`mknod(2)`) in

Reviewer 4: nit: I'm not sure I like the embedded link and text. 
With `runc` OCI runtime in non-rootless mode, [who or what creates the device?] the device is created (`mknod(2)`) in the container namespace and the ownership is changed to `runAsUser`/`runAsGroup` using `chmod(2)`.

Author: @kbhawkey thanks for the feedback, it makes sense. I wanted to keep the link to rootless so I moved it to the note below.
